As you all know, this morning I'm going to offer the involvement of the Khandro Thugtik,
which is the involvement of the wisdom dakini Shintojas. Before I begin the ceremony,
and I'm going to give the introduction, which is also part of the ceremony,
according to the lineage instruction, there is always like an introduction, part of what
means empowerment and what is the wisdom dakini Shintojas. And where this teaching comes from,
all those are discussing as introduction, so that we can settle our mind and so we can
actualize these blessings and empowerment. In order to begin this, of course, always
important, always in the teaching said, as you all know, the motivation is so important,
the intention is so important. This time, in terms of we have so many intentions,
such as all teachings by Brother Shaktamani, I'm going to summarize those all teachings into three
intentions, negative intentions, positive intentions, and neutral intentions. Among all
those three intentions, this time we're going to, igniting and increasing are the beautiful virtues
,
positive intentions. What is positive intention is this time, joy and appreciation and devotion.
Let release all the doubt and hesitation, analytic and intellectual ideas. This time is not. We're
going to merging and engaging and deepening ourself to this ceremony, to this part of the practices
,
without interference and obstacles of the dualities, as I said, doubt and hesitation,
skeptical, this and that, although these things we should put on the site. What do we need to
bring up? As I said already, joy, devotion, love and kindness are compared to all sentient beings,
and joy, the first joy. Joy is so important because we have every reason to be joy.
As the Buddha said, I'm sure you heard so many of these things from the great teachers,
not just here. We should observe that. We should stand on that. It's true. It's not just verbally
kind of talking, blah, blah, blah, blah. This is not really that blah, blah, blah. It's true.
We should, it says it's true, we should reflect this. Forever more joy. We have the 18 endowment
callers, first ever. We have 18 endowment callers, not just the human beings. We have
that 18 preachers, rich in the scholars that we have. Truly we have that. Therefore, we should
have a joy. The second joy, this time, we are connected to this great teacher, the Western
Dakini Chinsodya and Gopin Masambhava. It's not just for accidental. We came here, gathered these
inductings, but truly we connected. That means because of this connection, we are going to reveal
our Buddha nature, our goodness quality. That will be good for now, good for the future, good for
all
the time, not just only ourself, but we are going to make goodness to every living beings. We have
beautiful vision, goal, as a believed sunlight, the shining that in our heart, going to bright
every, our path, in every direction, not just only all the living beings, wherever we contact,
and then as well as everyone's. This is what we began. This is the journey we began. This is the
step we are taking. Therefore, we should make great joy, bring joy and appreciate. How wonderful,
how beautiful, how this important. I'm going to make this something spiritual, meaningful that
will reflect to myself, reflect to the others, truly in the heart and mind. That is joy. And
then devotion. This is again, precious teaching. It's not just again, we can't do like experimental
things, but truly it is lineage teaching, precious teaching. It is inspired. It brought the full
benefit of the result. So many enlightened beings, so many great practitioners, one after another.
Not
just it happened once in a while, but truly it happened. Today, we engage into this path,
that, that technique. We are holding that. We have a path, follow with that path. Therefore,
pure stone devotion. This is not just a teaching can truly just happen. It is a continued path
teaching, lineage teaching. Therefore, all of those great master, great practice who preserve
this teaching as they're breathing, they're high with full of joy, full of love and full of
compassion,
full of precious and inspired enlightened beings. That means bring up the joy, peace, happiness,
and both joy and peace, happiness to every living beings. How wonderful, how beautiful,
how precious it is, how special it is. Today, I'm going to connect to this. How wonderful,
pure stone, pure stone, rich in the scholars. That is what we need. With this, then, now we go. And
then also same time, think of this all compassion. Compassion is the essential teaching of the
Buddha chapter. No matter where it is, whether it is a Hinayana teaching, whether it is a Mahayana
teaching, whether it is a Vayayana teaching, compassion is so important. Feel great compassion,
love, kindness, thought for all the living beings. We're not going to exclude anyone by our ego
clinging and our grasping thought as a mundane worldly cue we do. Today, we're going to bring
everyone and we, everyone who benefited by this sincerely feel from that path, from our mind,
from our bone, from our breathing. Really feel that truly to everyone that we like to bring the joy
,
peace, happiness, remove all their difficulty, troubles, suffering, whatever they're going
through, whatever they're experiencing, whether they're in this earth or whether they're beyond
the galaxy. We are going to bring that to everyone to bring the joy and peace happiness. The same
desire that we have, we like to be even better for them. That is known as the great teaching Buddha
Chakra Kamanath, in this teaching Buddha Chakra Kamanath's teaching, Bodhicata, as you all know,
that we should feel so sincerely, strongly, then truly we are standing beautifully on our principle
of the Buddha nature. From there we begin this ceremony, that is foundation, that is ground,
that is the way we're standing, tall and strong and firm. From there we're going to
capture our beauty, our knowledge and our blessings that we're going to receive or the blessings
that
continue to pass. So with that, I understand the beautiful foundations. Now we talk about
where this teaching comes from. This is, again of course you all know, but this is what the
lineage teaching says, because it's not just our own life, we develop things as experiment,
things are claiming something, but it's long-lasting lineage teaching as natural.
Continuing from Buddha Chakra Muni 2600 years ago, continuing until now, everyone who connected to
this teaching with love and joy and reward, courage and commitment, they prefer their goals.
This is not just a story, it's true. So many beings, one after another, truly they become
the true love, true compassion, true wisdom, true peace, harmony, respect and appreciate,
not clash with ego, claiming that I'm more important than you, this and that. That ego
train is completely gone and brings a genuine scholar of love and kindness, respect and
appreciate with that. So many people who have practiced and reached the highest realization
as Buddha Chakra Muni himself, that is, that's the teaching today we connect again. We're already
connected, it's not something that we are not. We are connected, today we're deepening,
we're instantiating, we're glorifying that beautiful qualities, that beautiful teachings,
that reflect beautiful example, that outside and that beautiful example, and inherently we have
put one joint together, we are going to glorify our beautiful natures, that is right. So therefore,
this teaching comes from Buddha Chakra Muni. Buddha Chakra Muni reached enlightenment at 35,
approaching it as enlightenment at 35, and he turned the veil of dharma, that benefited
all the sentient beings, as you all know. From at 35, a few days ago, according to very history,
the Buddha gave the false teaching, false, noble, truth teaching. The truth teaching,
not false teaching, false or the subject teaching, it is truth, therefore it's called truth. It's
noble because it's truth. Truth is noble, there's nothing higher noble, nobility than the truth.
That's what the Buddha gave these teachings, poor, noble, truth teachings. From that on,
until at 81 or at 80, Buddha continually gave the teachings, all the different
categories and the different levels of the teaching, those teachings are divided, as you all know,
know as the Vinaya teaching, Sukhara teaching, Abhidhamma teaching, all and Vadiyana teachings.
Those are just roughly divisions that summarize entirely his teachings. What are these old
teachings? His teachings are teachings of wisdom and compassion, all that teaching. No matter
it is teaching on the Vinaya, it is the compassion and the wisdom teachings. United target, never
separated. Every Sukhara teaching, that is what it is, teachings on the wisdom and compassion.
Every Abhidhamma is the teachings on the wisdom and compassion. Every Vadiyana teaching is the
teachings on the wisdom and compassion. Where is this wisdom and compassion? The teaching tells
that
but actually Buddha points inward to our heart, to every nature of ours. Our love, our compassion,
our wisdom, how we should ignite, how we should glorify, not let it trap in the duality and
the fabrication of the grass tree and the habit of greatness. That's what the Buddha told,
continually all those teachings, what the teachings is. Among all those teachings,
today's teaching is connected very much to the Vadiyana teaching. It is teaching of the Mahayana
Vadiyana teachings. In the Vadiyana teaching, within there is many also two categories, but
first they divided subgroup as two. The outer Tantra, inner Tantras. This city belongs with inner
Tantras. Within the inner Tantra, there is different terminology used in some new schools
of Tibetan Buddhism used mostly as like father Tantra, mother Tantra, and neutral Tantras.
In any of my schools of Tibetan Buddhism, used as ancient school or the mother schools,
all the Tibetan Buddhism used terminologies as Mahayoga, Anoyoga, and Adiyoga teachings.
Among that three teachings, this particular teaching is more connected to the Anoyoga teachings
or the mother Tantras. We will talk it with the essence of the Mahayoga and essence of the
Adiyoga teachings, combine together that teaching. This is the mother Tantra teachings. This great
teaching came to Tibet, as you all know, in the 8th century. The full teaching of the
entire Buddha teaching without any partialities. Whole entire teaching came to Tibet,
Tibetan in the century, by gracious kindness, compassion, and aspiration of the Kintras on
that thing. Great Master Chanda Rachita, and then 2nd Buddha and Gaurabhema. Three of them
bought the entire teaching to Tibet without any kind of partialities or without anything living
behind. Tibet has become the richest Buddhist country on this earth, according to history,
according we can read the monument, legacy, teachings, still existent, that. And among
that with those teachings, and then as continuing this teaching, spread it and benefit so many
things from the 8th century until now. But among that, then schools, there's many different
schools that developed in Tibetan Buddhism. And all of Buddhism, all of Adiyana teaching,
all are great teachings. Great teachings, among that, then this teaching belongs with
Myanmar schools of Tibetan Buddhism, which you all know, the mother schools of the Tibetan
Buddhism, where, from where, every Buddhist school is developed. Spread it out as like,
as branch and leaves and fruit and flower as that developed, beautifully developed. Among that,
this is the Myanmar school of Tibetan Buddhism. In the Myanmar school of Tibetan Buddhism,
continue the teaching through two different channels, two different lineage, two different
methods. Those are known as the Kama and the Therma, as you all, or many of you already know.
Kama means order, long, last, living. That's something continued as the normal ways. Look at
the way teachers give the teaching to the students, their practices, and then they actualize their
realization of their teaching and share it to the other, continuing one after another. That is Kama
in Tibetan, which means, I translate it roughly, the order, transmission, long, last, limited.
It continued from age to century, until now, as unbroken, long, last, flowing as like rivers,
like river gates or river messages. Continually, follow that. And then, there is a second lineage
teaching, which is known as Therma teaching, which is a special hallmark, a special legacy
of the Merupian Masambha. Therma is very special, something that extraordinary beneficial activity
that can be expanded and reflected from the beneficial activity of the Merupian Masambha,
known as Therma, hidden and rediscovered. Something magical, something mystery, something beautiful
,
something amazing, teachings. That contains also the essence of the Veriana teaching,
essence of the old, the entire Buddha teaching. It's nothing without the range of the Buddha
teaching.
Within the Buddha teaching, it is what? Because the Buddha teaching is true, it's natural, it's
simple,
it's honest, it's love, it's complete. There's nothing new to go. Gurbel Masambha, therefore,
he is one of the great lineage holder and masters of Buddhism, entire Buddhism. Within that state,
but he used this skill to expand to the long-lasting of the teachings, known as Therma teaching,
as many of you know it. There's many great thetans came, one after another, from the
ninth centuries until now. So many, hopefully, toward the end of the ninth centuries or the
beginning of the tenth century, so many great thetans came, great individually, enlightened beings,
showed up as in the teachings, as like blooming up from the metals, the mushrooms blooming up from
the
metals. So many great masters came one after another, those difference. They bought all those
legends and teachings of the Gurbel Masambha and this great Western Dakinis. They are teachings,
they both out and share. What are those teachings? The analytic teachings are mainly connected with
with the hiri and the tantra. Mahayoga, Anayoga, Anand, Athayoga, teachings or combinations or
representing all of those hiri and the tantra, each of those things. But basically, all those
teachings came, one after another, continue, continue these teachings. And this among the
many teachings, many of those great thetans, and then later on, those great such masters, such as
two brothers of the Mendolian schools, and as was the Muntimpa, Rongzompa, and the great master,
they merged, and it was great, great, great, they merged with the kama and the theta as two big
rivers, one still, clean, beautiful, authentic river of lineage. They inspired and benefited
so many beings, merged, they're not really too separated, merged together. And so among those
all the teachings, this particular teaching, it belongs with great theta, emanation of the
Ravi Chachamalata, or emanation of the body of his Holiness, discovered by the great theta,
his Holiness, the Durum of modern time, we call his Holiness, because we've been traveling like
in the Western country, and our Prince said his Holiness, the new Devarachidodhi, or another one
in the world we call the Chagya Durumvatyas, the supreme lord of the protacto, protacto,
protacto of all beings, the his, the new Devarachidodhis. He was a great theta,
great master's, great teacher, great fortress, great, great writer, and great thinker,
yet he's so simple, so ordinary, so humble, just as we are like, like just simple persons. This
great master discovered so many great teachings, one after another. And others, among all those
teachings, this is the one of his supreme theta, teaching, supreme teachings, known as essence of
the Nakini drugs, heart drugs. In the teachings, he said his Holidodhyarumvatyas, body is emanation
of the Ravi Chachamalata, his speech is emanation of the Western Nakini in Georgia, and his Western
mind is emanation of the Guru of Amma Sambha. Three individually enlightened beings come
triggered as one simple beautiful beings, humble beings, who was born in southern Tibet over 200
years ago. And this great teacher then, as he said, brought so many of these teachings,
so many teachings. He became the true lineage holder of the entirely human schools of Tibetan
Buddhism. He became the master's of all the nimah practitioners, particularly who came out of the
Tibet in the sense in the 1959s and heard the communist pressures and their powers who came out.
They become his teachers, their teachers. This is known as his holiness, the new Jyograchi doctors.
He gave so many of these teachings again, again, so many connected students and so many beings
around the world. And among that, I was one of those students who also received these teachings.
And as I received this teaching, I'm sharing it to you, to you that. And then I received also this
teaching involvement from my beloved teacher, Kati Parthishara, many times, again and again,
again. So all those great teachers gave me this teaching. As I received, I preserved with joy
and devotion and devotion and bodhicata with humbleness with as much as can be given. And with
that attitude, with that thought, with that nature, I'm offering you this empowerment. So this is a
brief history of the lineage. Now, we'll talk a little bit about who is Vasryam Rakhineeshim
Soja, as you all know, but again, it's a part of the lineage. Yachim Soja can understand in many
different ways. Absolute level, we Yachim Soja can be understand and the relative level Yachim Soja
can be understand. Absolute level, Yachim Soja.